
# PODNAME: Mojo::IOLoop::LineReader

=encoding utf8

=head1 NAME

Mojo::IOLoop::LineReader - Non-blocking line-oriented input stream

=head1 SYNOPSIS

    use Mojo::IOLoop::LineReader;

    # Create reader
    my $reader = Mojo::IOLoop::LineReader->new($handle);
    $reader->on(read => sub {
        my ($reader, $line) = @_;
        ...
    });
    $reader->on(close => sub {
        my $reader = shift;
        ...
    });
    $reader->on(error => sub {
        my ($reader, $err) = @_;
        ...
    });

    # Start and stop watching for new data
    $reader->start;
    $reader->stop;

    # Start reactor if necessary
    $reader->reactor->start unless $reader->reactor->is_running;

=head1 DESCRIPTION

L<Mojo::IOLoop::LineReader> is a wrapper around L<Mojo::IOLoop::Stream>
that implements reading from a handle line by line.

=head1 EVENTS

L<Mojo::IOLoop::LineReader> inherits all events from L<Mojo::EventEmitter> and can
emit the following new ones.

=head2 close
 
    $reader->on(close => sub {
        my $reader = shift;
        ...
    });
 
Emitted if the stream gets closed.

=head2 error
 
    $reader->on(error => sub {
        my ($reader, $err) = @_;
        ...
    });
 
Emitted if an error occurs on the stream, fatal if unhandled.

=head2 read
 
    $reader->on(read => sub {
        my ($reader, $line) = @_;
        ...
    });
 
When data arrives on the stream, it is broken
down into lines. This event is emitted for each such line.

=head2 timeout
 
    $reader->on(timeout => sub {
        my $reader = shift;
        ...
    });
 
Emitted if the stream has been inactive for too long and will get closed
automatically.

=head1 ATTRIBUTES

L<Mojo::IOLoop::LineReader> implements the following attributes.

=head2 input_record_separator

    my $rs = $reader->input_record_separator;
    $reader = $reader->input_record_separator("");

Line separator to use when breaking input to lines, defaults
to the value of C<$/> at construction time.

=head1 METHODS

L<Mojo::IOLoop::LineReader> inherits all methods from L<Mojo::EventEmitter> and
implements the following new ones.

=head2 close
 
    $reader->close;
 
Close stream immediately.
 
=head2 close_gracefully
 
    $reader->close_gracefully;
 
Close stream gracefully.

=head2 handle
 
    my $handle = $reader->handle;
 
Get handle for stream, usually an L<IO::Socket::IP> or L<IO::Socket::SSL>
object.
 
=head2 is_readable
 
    my $bool = $reader->is_readable;
 
Quick non-blocking check if stream is readable, useful for identifying tainted
sockets.

=head2 new
 
    my $reader = Mojo::IOLoop::LineReader->new($handle);
 
Construct a new L<Mojo::IOLoop::LineReader> object.
 
=head2 reactor

    my $reactor = $reader->reactor;
    $reader     = $reader->reactor(Mojo::Reactor::Poll->new);

Low-level event reactor, defaults to the C<reactor> attribute value of the
global L<Mojo::IOLoop> singleton.

=head2 start
 
    $reader->start;
 
Start or resume watching for new data on the stream.
 
=head2 steal_handle
 
    my $handle = $reader->steal_handle;
 
Steal L</"handle"> and prevent it from getting closed automatically.
 
=head2 stop
 
    $reader->stop;
 
Stop watching for new data on the stream.
 
=head2 timeout
 
    my $timeout = $reader->timeout;
    $reader     = $reader->timeout(45);
 
Maximum amount of time in seconds stream can be inactive before getting closed
automatically, defaults to C<15>. Setting the value to C<0> will allow this
stream to be inactive indefinitely.

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<Mojo::IOLoop::Stream>, L<Mojo::IOLoop::LineStream>.

=head1 ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS

Large parts of this documentation were lifted from the documentation
of L<Mojo::IOLoop::Stream>.

Jan Henning Thorsen for the advice and code on #mojo.

The development of this library has been partially sponsored by Connectivity, Inc.

=cut
